Contributing to ACsploit
------------------------

We welcome community contributions to all aspects of ACsploit!

### General Code Style

TODO; eg

- use of exceptions for signalling errors in exploits, input generators, etc
- identifiers
- follow PEP 8
- use of `_private` names for internal functions
- `pytest` for tests
- add things to `requirements.txt` if needed


### Contributing Exploits

Exploits must follow the rules below and implement the given API:

- Each exploit must be implemented in its own module in the appropriate directory. You may create new directories if your exploit does not fit anywhere in the existing hierarchy.
  - Use a lower case, underscore-separated filename for your exploit's module. Make it descriptive, yet brief.
  - Create an empty `__init__.py` file in each new directory you create.

##### API:
- Your module must have an `Options` object. Use the `add_option` method to add exploit-specific options. (See below for the options API)
- Your module must have a `DESCRIPTION` string which briefly describes what the module does.
  - You are strongly encouraged to follow the format of the existing exploits in your description.
- Your module must have a method `run(generator, output)`. This method will be called when your exploit is used.
  - `generator` is an input generator object (see below for the input generator API).
  - `output` is an output generator object (see below for the output generator API).
  - You may want to whitelist/blacklist certain generators and output formats.
  - Your `run` method will typically end with `output.output(exploit_results)`, where `exploit_results` is a `list`.

Beyond the above requirements, your exploit can be written however you'd like.

### Contributing Input Generators

Input generators must follow the rules below and implement the given API:

- Your generator must have its own file in the `input/` directory.
  - When adding a new generator you must add its class to the list in `input/__init__.py`.
  - Use a lower case, underscore-separated filename for your generator's module. Make it descriptive, yet brief.
- Your generator must be a class inheriting from `object` (ie a new-style python class).

##### API:
- Your input generator class must have a class-level `OUTPUT_NAME`, a string identifying the input generator.
  - This string should be lower case and underscore-separated.
- Your input generator class must have an `__init__(self)` method.
- Your input generator class must have a `get_options(self)` method that returns the `Options` object used by the generator for configuration.
- Your input generator class must have a `set_option(self, key, value)` method that sets the option `key` (a `string`) to `value` and updates the internal state of the generator as appropriate.
- Your input generator class must have the following methods, each of which should return as indicated or raise a `NotImplementedError` if no meaningful value can be returned. (eg, the `regex` generator cannot meaningfully return anything for `get_max_value()`, as the 'maximum' value for a given regex is not a universally meaningful concept.)
  - `get_max_value(self)`/`get_min_value(self)`: return the greatest/smallest values that the generator could generate given its current option configuration.
  - `get_greater_than(self, value)`/`get_less_than(self, value)`: return a value greater or lesser than `value`, if these is one given the current option configuration. If no such value exists, these methods should raise a `ValueError`.
  - `get_random(self)`: return a random value within the restrictions of the current option configuration.
  - `get_list_of_values(self, num_values)`: return `num_values` values from within the restrictions of the current option configuration as a `list`. If that many values cannot be generated, this method should raise a `ValueError`.
  - `is_valid(self, value)`: return `True` if `value` could be generated by the generator given its current option configuration and `False` otherwise.

##### Tests:
- It is strongly recommended that you implement a test suite for your input generator.
- If your input generator is in a file called `input/shiny.py`, you should put its tests in `test/input/shiny.py`.

### Contributing Output Formatters

Output formatters must follow the rules below and implement the given API:

- Your formatter must have its own file in the `output/` directory.
  - When adding a new formatter you must add its class to the list in `output/__init__.py`.
  - Use a lower case, underscore-separated filename for your formatter's module. Make it descriptive, yet brief.
- Your formatter must be a class inheriting from `object` (ie a new-style python class).

##### API:
- Your output formatter class must have a class-level `OUTPUT_NAME`, a string identifying the output formatter.
  - This string should be lower case and underscore-separated.
- Your output formatter class must have a `__init__(self)` that creates and configures an `Options` object as the `options` member of instances of the class.
  - eg:

```
	def __init__(self):
   		self.options = Options()
   		self.options.add_options(…)
   		…
```
- Your output formatter class must have a `output(self, output_list)` method that formats and outputs each item in `output_list` (a `list`). This method must NOT return any values.

##### Tests:
- It is strongly recommended that you implement a test suite for your output formatter.
- If your output formatter is in a file called `output/shiny.py`, you should put its tests in `test/output/shiny.py`.

### Using Options

The `Options` module is used throughout ACsploit for configuration management.

Each configurable component (eg, an exploit, input generator, output formatter, etc) should create an `Options` object and expose it to consumers.

To add options call `options.add_option(option_name, default_value, description, acceptable_values=[])`.

- `option_name` should be in `snake_case`
- `Options` infers the type of the value from the type of `default_value` and coerces new values to that type.
  - eg, if `default_value` is `True`, calling `set_value()` with `'false'` will set the option to `False`.
  - coercion is implemented for `bool`, `int`, and `float`.
- `description` should be a human-readable description of the option.
- `acceptable_values` is an optional `list` of values. If provided, attempts to set the option to values not in `acceptable_values` will be rejected.

To get the current value of an option use `options.get_value(option_name)` or `options[option_name]`.

To set the value of an option call `options.set_value(option_name, value)`. If `value` is not in the `acceptable_values` for that option `set_value()` will raise a `ValueError`.

Example:

```
	from options import Options
	…
	class ExampleOutputFormatter(object):
		…
		def __init__(self):
			self.options = Options()
			self.options.add_option('this_is_the_option_name', 'this_is_the_default_value', 'This is the description of the option', ['this', 'is', 'a', 'list', 'of', 'acceptable', 'values'])
			self.options.add_option('verbosity', 0, 'How verbose to be')
			self.options.add_option('encabulate', False, 'Encabulate output')
			…
```